Paper number: 11

Overall evaluation:

The paper could possibly be accepted for the TYPES 2013
post-proceedings. Another refereeing round would be needed.

However, in the case that no other round is possible, we would expect
that the authors integrate the suggestions for improvement in an
appropriate and accurate way.

Reviewer's confidence:
expert


This paper shows how to organise cuboidal sets satisfying the Kan condition into a model of type theory.

Roughly speaking, such a "Kan cuboidal set" X can be seen as a family
of sets X0, X1, X2, X3, ... with X0 representing the actual elements
of X, X1 the equality proofs between actual elements of X, X2 the
equality proofs between proofs in X1, etc. There are appropriate
mediating maps that associate with each proof the objects whose
equality it proves. These thus decrease the level. There are also
"reflexivity maps" that increase level and produce trivial proofs by
reflexivity. The Kan condition postulates the existence of certain
equality proofs given other ones and allows in particular for the
construction of proofs by transitivity.

Unfortunately, the Kan condition is not a universal property and must thus be postulated as additional structure.

The contribution of this paper is to show that the Kan cuboidal sets
can be organised into a model of Martin Loef type theory in such a way
that the identity type externalises the "equality proofs" embodied in
the cuboidal sets. For this to work out, it is necessary to postulate
a naturality condition on the Kan gluing operation. It is shown that
the usual type formers preserve this naturality condition. The
resulting model of type theory is conjectured to satisfy Voevodski's
univalence axiom (isomorphic elements of a universe are
propositionally equal); strong evidence for this conjecture is given
in the form of a nontrivial corollary of the axiom.

I think that this is a very nice idea, however, the execution has some
problems that require a thorough reworking or at least a thorough
discussion leaving some of the points to future work.

First, there should be some concrete examples of cuboidal sets. I
should think that a topological spaces give rise to cuboidal sets
using homotopy, there should also be trivial examples from sets and
groupoids.

One should then illustrate some of the concepts with the help of these
 examples.

Secondly, I have trouble understanding the Kan condition. Intuitively,
there should be only one gluing operation, but there are two of them:
downarrow and uparrow. There are no axioms that distinguish the two,
so for all intents and purposes they could be the same and the paper
does not give an example where they are necessarily distinct. The role of these two gluing operations should thus be better motivated.

I also find the format of the gluing condition somewhat unusual in
that it requires "I" to have at least three elements for a nontrivial
instance. This prevented me from completely understanding the
mechanism and, to be honest, I did not succeed in using it to compose
two elements p:X({a}), q:X({a}) with p[a=0] = q[a=1] to form an
element r:X({a}) satisfying r[a=0]=p[a=0] and r[a=1]=p[a=1]. Is this
possible by somehow blowing up with dummy elements?

There are some typos:

prcise -> precise

explicitely -> explicitly

a new sets -> a new set

In the 8th last line of Section 3 one uparrow should probably be a downarrow.
