
-------------------------4-----------------------

I have no hesitation in recommending acceptance; the work presented is of great interest, and the paper is generally correct and complete as stands.  However, there are several revisions that I would urge the authors to consider, which I think would highly increase the readability of the paper.

Several of these suggestions come down to a common point: it would be helpful if definitions and constructions were given more clear, concise, and self-contained statements, and if possible, numbered.  In most ways, I like the fact that the authors have opted to err on the side of readability rather than terseness, introducing constructions discursively with plenty of explanatory remarks.  However, the downside currently is that some important definitions/theorems end up scattered through multiple paragraphs, without a single self-contained statement that readers (or authors citing this paper in future) can easily refer back to.  The points which I feel would most benefit from improvement in this way are:

- the definition of the "cubical category" \C.  (Incidentally, \mathcal{C} seems a slightly non-ideal name for this category, since it's so commonly used as the variable for an arbitrary category, whereas this is a notable individual category that subsequent work may often want to refer back to?)

- the Paulin-Mohring elimination operator in Sec.7.2, which is currently not stated or cited at all!

- the statement proved in Sec.7.4, of transforming an equivalence into an equality of elements of the universe

Besides this, the one other point I was not quite happy with is the assertion, on p.16 at the end of Sec. 7.4, that the full Univalence Axiom can be validated in the model.  This is an important and highly non-trivial fact, and asserting it without proof, reference, or a promise of future proof seems unfortunate.  It prevents other authors from working on it, and leaves its status in the literature quite nebulous.  If the authors plan to publish the proof in the near future (or if someone else does), then they can say so, or otherwise this assertion should be qualified.  The footnote given suggests a reference, but it is not at all clear to this reviewer how the linked program can be seen as a proof of the assertion (though it is certainly interesting and closely related), if that is what was intended.

Similarly, since the Kan structure on the universe is only given the very beginnings of a sketch (it does not seem to me routine to complete the sketch), it would be good to indicate whether a full proof is forthcoming, or if not, to be more clear about this incompleteness in the abstract/introduction.

Minor points:

throughout: "degenerated", when used as an adjective, should be "degenerate", e.g. "a degenerate line", not "a degenerated line"

p.1, abstract "how to transform an equivalence... in an equality": "in" should be "into"

p.2, para 2, "sketch on one special case": "on" should be "one".

p.2, marker for footnote 2, "if f(i) is an element of J": the footnote marker should be after the period, not after J, so that it doesn't look like f(i) is an element of $^2$.

All done

p.4, definition of types in the full presheaf model: for some readers it will be perhaps helpful to point out that a type is precisely (i.e. up to isomorphism of categories) a presheaf on the category of elements of the context, and hence is equivalent (up to categorical equivalence) to the slice (cubical sets)/Gamma.

Marc is not among the readers for whom this would help. Any suggestion?

p.5, O^+(J,x): leaving the parameter I implicit in this notation is problematic later on, since it can't be inferred from the other arguments.

Marc would not like to complicate the notation. Indeed, in O(f(J),f(x)), with f: I -> K defined on J,x, we operate with K instead of I. But is that a problem?
 
p.6, para 3: for readers familiar with HoTT terminology, perhaps drop in the word "transport" here to help see what the operations X^+, X^- are doing.

Added after the display: "representing \emph{transport} in the open box in the direction in which it is open." Is that OK?

p.7, para beginning "We now show that N^\mathbb{I} is not Kan": the last I(K) in this para should be \mathbb{I}(K).

Fixed: I ---> \interval

p.8, Sec 5.3, para 3: "the open 'box' is a degenerated line": why must it be degenerate?  I think it can be any line; but this does not cause any problems in the proof, it simply means that the square given as a filler will be singly not doubly degenerate.

No. We operate here with I = x,z and J empty, so u_{x0} is a degenerate line in direction z. Clarified.

p.11, Sec 7.1: "we can interpret inductive types as discrete Kan cubical sets": slightly misleading - only the constant inductive types (Nat, Bool, etc.) will be discrete; other inductives, such as W-types, may not be.

Good point. What exactly means "discrete"? E.g., List A only has decidable equality if A has. Any suggestion?

p.13, para 1, "...the usual definitional equality...": perhaps clarify that this means the def. eq. in the computation rule of the P-M eliminator.

Changed into: "with the difference that
its computation rule only holds propositionally, and not as usual definitionally.
In order not to make ..."


